# cs465-fullstack
Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
To compare the types of frontend development that I used in the project I would like to start by comparing Express HTML and JavaScript. The Express application is very simple and uses directions in the routes and controllers related to the HTML page that the user has requested based on the navigation bar selection. When this task is done using JavaScript the application still uses controllers and routes, but handlebars are implemented to be able to reuse information such as the footer and header. The data is also moved out of the HTML files and to a separate file containing the data which is loaded by using a model with fields related to the necessary information needed for the web page. Moving everything over to a Single Page Application involves using components for each element of the application with some elements being static throughout the entire application. The SPA allows for there to be an authentication wall which hides certain elements and capabilities until the authentication function unlocks them. Using the SPA also involves a separate API portion of the program which is handled differently in both the Express HTML and the JavaScript web app. 
Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
The backend used a NoSQL MongoDB was due to the data requirements for the application. The app did not need store data in table form meaning it allowed the database app to adapt to changing requirements and the structure for a relational database was not needed. The app only needed a schema for each database and then it could pull the stored data from the database accordingly. 
How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
JSON is different from Javascript in a few aspects, the first one being Javascript is a language with the main purpose of creating interactive and dynamic elements when developing web pages. Javascript can be implemented to run the front end of the app and the backend of the app using Node.js. Executables can be run in Javascript allowing the elements to be complex need be. 
JSON is a language which focuses on data interchange format. JSON is not a programming language on its own but is a way to structure and transmit data between the UI and the database. Executables such loops or functions cannot be ran in JSON.  
JSON ties together the frontend and backend of the application by setting a standard for the data when it is to be exchanged between the database and the UI. In the webapp there are formats placed in specific files that would require the application to follow these schemas when bringing the data in from the database to the UI so that when the data is displayed it is in proper format. This happens in the HTML file related to the page the user is looking to load. 
Instances where the application was refactored to improve functionality were when the application was brought over from a Express HTML layout to a Javascript/Express format. Doing this allowed the app to work with a database and had the data stored in a separate file that would not display the information regarding the trips to the user but the data was in JSON format, so it was able to be brought to the 
